The Javadoc plugin is typically tied to actually a Maven site goal.
And just to show you an example of overriding it,
we're going to tie it to the same configuration we had for the Source Plugin.
So I've gone ahead and type this all out already,
and you can see we have the org.apache.maven.plugins groupId again,
the maven‑javadoc‑plugin artifactId, and then a version
3.1.0, and we've tied it to those same execution goals
and phase that we had upabove.
You may just want to copy that and paste it from up above yourself.
I'm going to go ahead and save this, and then go out to my
command line, and run maven install again, and it will go
through, and this will take a little bit longer.
You'll see why people tie this to later phases.
It'll go through and check all of the source structure, and
then generate all those HTML files for us.
Now we could navigate down into the target directory and show you the apidocs.
In fact, we'll do just that.
If we do a dir, you can see the folder apidoc that wasn't there before,
but let's go to the actual Explorer and navigate into it, and you'll see
that we have an index, and this is the Javadocs, just like you're used to
normally seeing when you go look at anything for the Java API. We don't
have any other classes,
so looking at it in the form of a package structure, when we're
using the default package doesn't do you any good, but you can see
how this goes through and builds all of this documentation and
information for us by default.
So, it's really a handy plugin if you are producing a public API,
or you have multiple teams working together, and you want to share some
documentation with that other team, and not have them need to go through all
of the source code to figure out what they're trying to do with this API. So
the Javadoc API is really easy to use, and if you comment your code,
it'll actually go through and build all this documentation for you automatically.